# Gorilla Tools!
These tools were hard (eh) to find, fix, and form into what you have here. While it's not perfect,
this toolchain allowed me to generate crisper fonts. Many of the other tools I came across for
generating *.gorilla files read from other bitmap font generators that spit out antialiased fonts
whether you like it or not. These tools here fix that.

The XMLtoOgre had to be compiled from source, as it would crash when attempting
to convert the BMFontgen XML file. This is because there were some schema changes in both the
BMFontgen tool output, as well as Gorilla. I can't figure out how to get the glyph kerning
values to work, so you won't get kerning per-glyph... You will have to use the global kerning
setting in the *.gorilla files. Out of the dozen or so fonts I generated and tested in Kerberos,
this wasn't an issue, but your mileage may vary. This isn't the most graceful solution, but it works
for me, for now. Eventually we will have a _real_ tool for generating bitmaps and Gorilla files,
with plenty o' options!

---

## Usage
Before starting, I have setup the BMFontgen bit to use one of a few select options files. By
default it is `opt-1bppGrid-256.txt`.  This is good for monospace or bitmap fonts. 
Basically fonts you don't want antialiased. However, if you edit `generate.bat`, you can 
change the `-optfile opt-X-X.txt`part to reflect which config you want. Details on the options
below. Note the overview is only for 256x256 size bitmaps, but options exist on up to resolutions
of 1024x1024.

  * opt-1bppGrid-256.txt  
    _Non-antialiased text with grid hinting @ 256px256_
  * opt-aaGrid-256.txt  
    _Antialiased text with grid hinting @ 256x256_
  * opt-1bpp-256.txt  
    _Non-antialiased text __without__ grid hinting @ 256px256_
  * opt-aa-256.txt  
    _Antialiased text __without__ grid hinting @ 256x256_
    

Run generate. You will be presented with a Windows font dialogue window, to select your font,
and size. Other options are ignored. After picking your font, and hitting okay, the dialogue will
close and you'll want to bring focus to the console window, and press a key to continue on to
converting the BMFontgen XML to Gorilla format. When prompted to enter in the font XML file, it
is likely you'll only need to type `font`, Unless you changed the name of the XML file BMFontgen
spit out in the middle of this. At any rate, enter _just the name of the file_. __Omit the file
extension__. Now hit enter. Nearly done.

You need to open the image BMFontgen generated in an image editor, and add a small totally white
RGB(255,255,255) square somewhere, and reference it's X,Y center position in pixels. This is for
Gorilla to reference as a magical bean or something. Right, save the image. Open up the *.gorilla
file that was generate, and you'll need to add a section at the top, or bottom:

```
[Texture]
file your-image.file
whitepixel X Y
```

The `file` part should be the file name of the bitmap image generated by BMFontgen. Lastly, `whitepixel`
should reference the X,Y center of the white square you added to your awesome file previously. You may
want to tweak a few of the other options, but I leave that to you and all the colorful paper-clips in
your desk drawer.

With all this done, you should have a `yourfile.gorilla` and `yourfile.png`, ready to be consumed
by Gorilla. I won't _punish_ you by saying this process is a little bananas.